Introduction to Programming in C Online Course Specialization on Coursera

Launch your Software career with Duke

This 100% online specialization develops strong programming fundamentals for learners who want to solve complex problems by writing computer programs.

Prepare for a career in software development. Earn a specialization certificate you can show employers.
Experience what it's like to be a Duke Engineering master's student. If you like taking these courses online with our top-notch faculty, you'll love being in a Duke classroom.

Four Short Courses—No Experience Required

Through four courses taught by Duke University professors on Coursera, you'll learn to develop algorithms and to write C code.

And, successful completion of this specialization will be considered by Duke graduate admissions—enhancing your master's degree application.

100% online
Approx. 3 months to complete
$49 per month
Start Learning Today

"I had no knowledge of programming. The course helped me understand whether I could learn it. As a result, I decided to continue and go deeper.”
Learner Review
"Programming Fundamentals" on Coursera

Instructors

Drew Hilton
Associate Professor of the Practice, Duke University
Recipient, Klein Family Distinguished Teaching Award

Genevieve Lipp
Assistant Professor of the Practice, Duke University
Teaches programming in C++, dynamics, and control systems

Anne Bracy
Senior Lecturer, Cornell University
Recipient, College of Engineering Excellence in Teaching Award

Recent Duke ECE Master's Grads

90%
employed within six months of graduation

$102,576
average starting salary

Career Services
personal job search support

Great Jobs
at top tech firms

Launch Your career with a Duke Degree

If you like taking these online courses, you'll love being in a Duke classroom with Drew and Genevieve

Once you’ve completed the Introduction to Programming in C Specialization, take the next step: a master’s degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) from Duke.

Successful completion of this Specialization will be considered by Admissions as a demonstration of your skill and will enhance your application.

We offer:

A rigorous curriculum to prepare you for a great career
An energetic and entrepreneurial campus environment
A record of excellent career outcomes—including jobs at Amazon, Apple, Facebook and more
earn your master's at Duke

Join our mailing list!Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs and recruitment events »

Master's Contacts

Miroslav Pajic
Director of Master's Studies and Dickinson Family Associate Professor
919-660-5252
dms-ece@duke.edu

Krista Turner
Master's Program Coordinator
919-660-8190
ecemastersteam@duke.edu

Kevyn Light
Senior Program Coordinator
919-660-5267
ecemastersteam@duke.edu

Matthew Novik
Graduate Program Coordinator
919-660-1801
ecemastersteam@duke.edu

AdmissionsContact the Admissions & Recruiting team at pratt_masters@duke.edu

© Copyright 2011-2024 Duke University