Academic Resources
MEng AI Curriculum
On-Campus Program
The on-campus program allows students to choose between the accelerated 12-month study plan or the 16-month (3 semester) study plan.  Students in the 12-month plan begin in late July with the Bootcamp and continue through Fall, Spring and Summer semesters, completing their degree at the end of July.  Students who select the 16-month option stay an extra Fall semester, which provides more flexibility to spread out electives, take additional electives, or allocate time for job searching.  Please be aware that the decision to extend your studies to the 16-month option comes with the cost of additional tuition for the extra Fall semester.  The course sequence for the 12-month and 16-month plans are shown below.  Individual course descriptions can be viewed on the AIPI website.
On-Campus MEng: 12 Months
On-Campus MEng: 16 Months
Online MEng Program
The online MEng AI program is designed to be a part-time program for working professionals to pursue a masters education while they continue to work.  The classes are the same classes that the on-campus students take.  For some courses, online and on-campus students will participate in the course together while for other courses the online students take them in opposite semesters and have their own online-only section.  All AIPI courses are recorded and made available on the Duke course website for students to reference at any time during the semester.
Electives
Students take three elective courses as part of the MEng AI program.  At least one of these electives MUST be taken within the AIPI program. For the remaining two electives, students may count any graduate-level (500+) course in the Pratt School of Engineering as an elective.  Students may also take select other courses outside the School of Engineering as electives.  To register for other non-Engineering elective courses, students must receive the instructor’s permission (to confirm space is available and you meet any pre-reqs for the course) as well as permission from the Program Director.  There are recommended elective options listed here.
Course Registration
Students enroll in courses through DukeHub.  The Registrar’s Office has several registration guides, videos, and important reminders that are helpful to review as you prepare to register for classes.
Academic Forms
Please click on the link to access the form:
Audit Permission Form Course Withdrawal Form Leave of Absence Form – Academic Leave of Absence Form – Medical Leave of Absence Form – Personal MEMP Course Registration Permission Form International Students: CPT & OPT
Please visit the Duke Visa Services website for official instructions regarding requirements for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) and Optional Practical Training (OPT).  You may also contact Duke Visa Services at 919-681-8472. Questions about CPT, OPT, visas, and your eligibility/authorization to work in the United States should be directed to the Duke Visa Services Office.  Additionally, this site provides more information about CPT and OPT.