Career Resources

Career Services

Duke Engineering has a dedicated Career Services and Professional Development (CSPD) team for masters students in the School of Engineering, as well as a Career Services website for engineering masters students.

The CSPD career contact for our AIPI program is Jenny Johnson, Assistant Director of Career Services. Jenny can be reached through MS Teams chat.

For new incoming students, we encourage you to start on the tasks below to gain momentum in your job search:

Clarify What You Want

Starting early allows you to invest time and energy into learning more about what you like, what you are good at, where you want to spend your time, and the possible opportunities that align with you. To get started, use the Occupational Outlook Handbook to explore specific roles and industries. Note the sections What They Do” and “Work Environment”. What are you curious about? Where do you not want to spend your time?

Spend Time with News and Trends

Stay up to date with current news, research, and events using the Industry Resources. 

Talk to People

As you learn about possible opportunities and your areas of alignment seek out insights, advice, and feedback from industry professionals. Watch this short video filled with advice for networking with Duke alumni. 

Set Up Your Search 

LinkedIn

LinkedIn is a powerful tool for building connections. Invest time in creating and updating your LinkedIn profile. Watch this LinkedIn Learning course to “Rock Your LinkedIn profile”. Incorporate the recommendations that resonate with you (enter LinkedIn Learning through Duke OIT for free access once you have your Duke email setup).

Application Documents

Your application documents should be written with you audience in mind to showcase your skills, strengths, and experiences that align with the role. To get started use the resources in the resume writing guide and cover letter writing guide from the Duke University Career Center. 

Events

There are numerous events over the course of the academic year which provide students with opportunities to network with industry professionals and learn more about companies, job roles and industries.  Some of the main events include:

Duke Career Fair (September)
NC Graduate Student Career Fair (October)
TechConnect (September & February)
StartupConnect (February)
Practice Interview Day (February)
Company Virtual Info Sessions (Ongoing)
Job Roles

AIPI students come from backgrounds in a wide range of engineering/science fields and industries, and aspire to continue their careers in diverse industries.  Some of the more common potential job roles are listed below.  Depending on their background experience/education and interests, many AIPI students pursue either a technical career path or a product management path building AI-based products.

Technical path
Data Scientist
Machine learning Engineer
Software Engineer / Manager
Data Engineer
Product path
Technical Product Manager / Product Owner
Product Manager / Associate Product Manager
Project or Program Manager
Professional Development

The School of Engineering CSPD team also hosts a series of professional development workshops and activities throughout the year.  Click here to register for an upcoming professional development event.  The Professional Development activities for Engineering Masters students are led by Carey Rudell, Assistant Director of Professional Development.

Duke students also have free access to the entire LinkedIn Learning online training library, which contains over 13,000 online courses covering technology, business and creative topics.