Brad Fox

Exec Dir, Professional Masters Prgms

Associate Dean, Engineering Master’s Programs 

Executive Director, Institute for Enterprise Engineering

Co-chair, Provost’s Committee: Master’s Advisory Council

Dr. Fox joined Duke University in 2003. He is the associate dean of master's programs and executive director of the Institute for Enterprise Engineering in the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke.

He earned his B.S. in Materials Engineering from Virginia Tech and his Ph.D. in Materials Science from the University of Virginia. At the University of Virginia, he was awarded the Allan Talbott Gwathmey Memorial Award for the best dissertation in the physical sciences. After graduation, he worked for IBM, Kobe Steel and General Electric in all phases of the technology lifecycle, including the development of novel electronic devices, the development of next-generation memory chips, and the implementation of technology to reduce manufacturing costs.

He has been awarded 5 U.S. patents and published 25 articles and three book chapters. He is a certified Six Sigma Black Belt and contributed to GE’s Design for Six Sigma Book of Knowledge.

At Duke, he has taught engineering project management and has overseen numerous experiential learning projects as part of the Engineering Management Practicum. In 2011, he was awarded the 2011 IEEE Technology Management Council's Engineering Management Educator of the Year Award. He has served on the Masters Advisory Council since 2010 and has served as co-chair since 2012.

During his time at Duke, he has worked to launch a number of academic programs including the master of engineering degree, Duke Master of Engineering Management Online (Duke MEM Online), as well as master of engineering specializations in FinTech, Cybersecurity; Game Design, Development &amp; Innovation; and Design Thinking &amp; Technological Innovation.

Appointments and Affiliations

Exec Dir, Professional Masters Prgms

Contact Information

Office Location: 3405A Fitzpatrick Center, Durham, NC 27708

Office Phone: +1 919 660 5516

Email Address: brad.fox@duke.edu

Courses Taught

EGRMGMT  501: Engineering Management Seminar