Pramod Singh

Adjunct Associate Professor in the Engineering Graduate and Professional Programs

Dr. Pramod Singh is a distinguished and award-winning analytics and data science leader with over 25 years of global experience across diverse industries. As the former Chief Analytics Officer and Vice President of Data Sciences and Analytics at Envestnet | Yodlee (April 2015- Oct 23), he led teams of data scientists, analytics engineers, and business analysts, driving the development and implementation of cutting-edge analytics solutions that significantly contributed to organizational growth. Notably, he implemented an enterprise analytics platform integrating Big Data stack and Cloud compute capabilities, resulting in a remarkable 3x revenue growth over a 5-year period.

Currently serving as an Adjunct Associate Professor at both the Pratt School of Engineering, Duke University, Dr. Singh is dedicated to educating and mentoring future leaders in analytics and data science.

His expertise encompasses decision science technologies, covering both structured and unstructured data, as well as machine learning and artificial intelligence. Driven by a passion for innovation, he consistently delivers solutions that drive tangible business results.

Prior to his tenure at Envestnet | Yodlee, Pramod spent 15 years at Hewlett Packard, where he led the digital and big data analytics practice and was first Distinguished Technologist of Advance Analytics. Analytics efforts led by him resulted in incremental revenue of more than $1B.  He made significant contributions early in his career at Wal-Mart's Information Systems team, notably in the development of the Assortment Planning system which revolutionized assortment planning and still in use.

Recognized as a thought leader, Dr. Singh serves on advisory boards and has received numerous industry and academic awards. His insights have been published in prestigious periodicals and journals, and he is a sought-after speaker at global conferences. Dr. Singh holds a PhD and Master's degree in Mathematics from the University of Arkansas, supplemented by an MBA in Marketing from the University of Jammu.

Appointments and Affiliations

Adjunct Associate Professor in the Engineering Graduate and Professional Programs

Contact Information

Email Address: pramod.singh@duke.edu

Education

Ph.D. University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, 2004
M.S. University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, 1996
M.B.A. University of Jammu (India), 1992

Courses Taught

AIPI 549: Capstone Practicum 1